README.md, before:

# CS-EDR-Enumeration

Cobalt Strike Aggressor Script for enumerating AV, EPP, EDR, and Telemetry/SIEM products on compromised Windows hosts. Provides **six enumeration commands** with different noise footprints, letting operators choose the method that fits their current risk tolerance.

![Cobalt Strike](https://img.shields.io/badge/Cobalt%20Strike-4.x-red)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green)
![Signatures](https://img.shields.io/badge/Signatures-447-blue)
![Vendors](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vendors-48-orange)

## Why This Exists

Knowing what security products are running on a host is the first question after initial access. The problem: most enumeration techniques spawn `powershell.exe` or `cmd.exe`, generating telemetry that the very EDR you're trying to identify will flag. The irony of spawning the most-monitored process on the system to ask whether the system is monitored shouldn't be lost on anyone.

This script provides a graduated approach — from completely silent (in-process BOF, zero artifacts) to full WMI enumeration — so operators can make informed decisions about detection tradeoffs.

## Features

- Broad signature database covering **processes**, **services**, and **kernel drivers** across all major EDR, AV, EPP, and telemetry vendors
- **Kernel driver enumeration** — detects EDR minifilters 
- **Six commands** sorted by noise level from `★` (silent) to `★★★★` (loud)
- **BOF with mode selection** — enumerate services only, drivers only, or both
- Inline BOF execution — zero child processes, no AMSI/CLR/ETW
- Automatic threat level assessment (HIGH / MODERATE / LOW)
- Color-coded output by product category: `[EDR]` `[AV]` `[EPP]` `[TEL]` `[DRV]`
- Built-in `edr_help` with split artifact/coverage matrices

## Supported Vendors

| Category | Vendors |
|----------|---------|
| **EDR** | CrowdStrike, SentinelOne, Carbon Black, Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, Cortex XDR, Elastic Security, Sophos Intercept X, Trend Micro Apex One, Trellix/FireEye, ESET Inspect, Bitdefender GravityZone, Cybereason, Fortinet FortiEDR, HarfangLab, Huntress, Deep Instinct, LimaCharlie, Rapid7, Tanium, Dell Secureworks, Endgame |
| **AV** | Microsoft Defender, ESET, Kaspersky, Sophos, McAfee/Trellix, Trend Micro, Bitdefender, Webroot, Malwarebytes, WithSecure/F-Secure, Avast/AVG, Avira, Norton/Gen Digital, Comodo/Xcitium, G Data, Emsisoft, Dr.Web, AhnLab, VIPRE/ThreatTrack |
| **EPP** | Broadcom/Symantec, BlackBerry Cylance, WatchGuard/Panda, Check Point Harmony |
| **Telemetry/SIEM** | Sysmon, Splunk UF, Elastic Beats, Wazuh/OSSEC, Velociraptor, Nexthink |
| **ZTNA/Other** | Zscaler, CyberArk, Cisco Secure Endpoint, Qualys |

## Command Reference

Commands sorted by noise level (lowest → highest):

| Command | Noise | Method | Child Process | CLR | AMSI | ScriptBlock Log |
|---------|-------|--------|---------------|-----|------|-----------------|
| `edr_check` | ★ | `bps()` process list | — | — | — | — |
| `edr_services_bof` | ★ | Inline BOF (`beacon_inline_execute`) | — | — | — | — |
| `edr_services_pick` | ★★ | `bpowerpick` (unmanaged PowerShell) | — | Yes | Yes | — |
| `edr_services_cmd` | ★★★ | `bshell` + `sc query` | cmd.exe | — | — | — |
| `edr_services` | ★★★★ | `bpowershell` + `Get-Service` | powershell.exe | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| `edr_enum` | ★★★★ | `bps()` + PowerShell WMI | powershell.exe | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| `edr_help` | — | Client-side only (no Beacon traffic) | — | — | — | — |

> **—** = not generated &nbsp;│&nbsp; **Yes** = generated &nbsp;│&nbsp; Noise: ★ minimal → ★★★★ loud

### BOF Modes

`edr_services_bof` accepts an optional argument to control enumeration scope:

| Command | Scope | Use Case |
|---------|-------|----------|
| `edr_services_bof` | Services + drivers | Full picture (default) |
| `edr_services_bof svc` | Services only | Quick vendor ID, less output over slow C2 |
| `edr_services_bof drv` | Drivers only | Verify kernel callbacks after service kill |

One compiled BOF, one `inline-execute` call. The operator picks scope at runtime.

### Recommended Workflow

```
1. edr_check                ★     Always. Zero cost.
2. edr_services_bof         ★     If BOF is compiled. Zero cost.
   edr_services_bof svc     ★     Quick vendor ID only.
   edr_services_bof drv     ★     Drivers only (post-svc-kill check).
3. edr_services_pick        ★★    If CLR loading is acceptable.
4. edr_services_cmd         ★★★   If cmd.exe child is acceptable.
5. edr_services             ★★★★  Only if PowerShell is already expected.
6. edr_enum                 ★★★★  Full picture, highest artifact cost.
```

**Best combo:** `edr_check` + `edr_services_bof` = full process, service, AND kernel driver visibility at noise level ★ with zero extra artifacts.

**Post-exploit:** After killing an EDR service, run `edr_services_bof drv` to verify whether kernel callbacks and minifilters are still loaded.

### Artifact Matrix (Detection Surface)

What each command leaves behind — fewer marks is better:

```
                    check  bof   bof   bof   pick  cmd   svc   enum
                           both  svc   drv
Child Process:      -      -     -     -     -     cmd   PS    PS
CLR Loading:        -      -     -     -     YES   -     YES   YES
AMSI:               -      -     -     -     YES   -     YES   YES
ScriptBlock:        -      -     -     -     -     -     YES   YES
Module Log:         -      -     -     -     -     -     YES   YES
Transcript:         -      -     -     -     -     -     poss  poss
WMI Log:            -      -     -     -     -     -     -     YES
Sysmon EID 1:       -      -     -     -     -     YES   YES   YES
Sysmon EID 7:       -      -     -     -     YES   -     -     -
.NET ETW:           -      -     -     -     YES   -     -     -
EID 4688:           -      -     -     -     -     YES   YES   YES
```

> **-** = no artifact &nbsp;│&nbsp; **YES** = generated &nbsp;│&nbsp; **cmd/PS** = child process type &nbsp;│&nbsp; **poss** = only if transcript logging is enabled on the target. Fewer marks = lower detection risk.

### Coverage Matrix (What You Get Back)

What intel each command returns:

```
                    check  bof   bof   bof   pick  cmd   svc   enum
                           both  svc   drv
Processes:          YES    -     -     -     -     -     -     YES
Services:           -      YES   YES   -     YES   YES   YES   YES
Kernel Drivers:     -      YES   -     YES   -     -     -     -
WMI AV Products:    -      -     -     -     -     -     -     YES
```

> **YES** = enumerated &nbsp;│&nbsp; **-** = not covered. More **YES** = better intel.

### Operator Reference (`edr_help`)

Run `edr_help` in any Beacon to display a built-in quick reference card. Client-side only — no traffic to the target. Covers noise baseline definitions, all commands with their artifacts, recommended workflow, artifact and coverage matrices, color coding legend, threat levels, Malleable C2 notes, and current signature database stats.

<p align="center">
  <img width="700" alt="edr_help operator quick reference output" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/05eb0988-7ce3-428b-a52e-6209bd1078ff" />
</p>

## Installation

### 1. Load the Aggressor Script

Copy `edr-enum.cna` into your Cobalt Strike client:

```
Cobalt Strike → Script Manager → Load → edr-enum.cna
```

This gives you immediate access to `edr_check`, `edr_services`, `edr_services_cmd`, `edr_services_pick`, and `edr_enum`. No compilation required for these.

### 2. Compile the BOF (for `edr_services_bof`)

The BOF requires MinGW-w64 cross-compilers. On Kali/Debian/Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt install mingw-w64
```

Then compile using the provided Makefile:

```bash
make
```

Or manually:

```bash
# x64
x86_64-w64-mingw32-gcc -c svc_enum_bof.c -o svc_enum_bof.x64.o

# x86
i686-w64-mingw32-gcc -c svc_enum_bof.c -o svc_enum_bof.x86.o
```

Place the compiled `.o` files in the **same directory** as `edr-enum.cna`.

> **Note:** The `.o` filenames must use dot convention (`svc_enum_bof.x64.o`, not `svc_enum_bof_x64.o`) to match the CNA's `script_resource()` lookup.

## File Structure

```
CS-EDR-Enumeration/
├── edr-enum.cna          # Aggressor Script (main script)
├── svc_enum_bof.c        # BOF source for service + driver enumeration
├── beacon.h              # Cobalt Strike BOF API header
├── Makefile              # Cross-compilation build script
└── README.md
```

## Output Examples

### Process-Based Enumeration (`edr_check`)

Uses Beacon's native `bps()` — no child process, no DLL loads, no ETW. Zero artifacts.

<p align="center">
  <img width="700" alt="edr_check process enumeration output" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/aa2f00ae-74aa-4db0-ae3a-f4762ab36e13" />
</p>

### BOF Service + Driver Enumeration (`edr_services_bof`)

In-process enumeration via `OpenSCManagerW` + `EnumServicesStatusExW`. Enumerates both Win32 services and kernel drivers. Same noise level as `edr_check`.

<p align="center">
  <img width="700" alt="edr_services_bof service and driver enumeration output" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/01d57e9d-03f7-4983-ad6c-22be28a986b5" />
</p>

### Other Methods

<details>
<summary>bpowerpick — Unmanaged PowerShell (★★)</summary>

<p align="center">
  <img width="700" alt="edr_services_pick unmanaged PowerShell output" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7ebd8eec-c7b3-4da8-b9ca-8694e272d2f5" />
</p>

Loads CLR into Beacon process. No `powershell.exe` child, but EDRs may flag unmanaged CLR hosting.
</details>

<details>
<summary>bpowershell — PowerShell Get-Service (★★★★)</summary>

<p align="center">
  <img width="700" alt="edr_services PowerShell Get-Service output" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d8075abc-67b3-4e2c-b28e-f28d0bbc699f" />
</p>

Spawns `powershell.exe` — activates ScriptBlock logging, Module logging, AMSI, and process creation events.
</details>

<details>
<summary>bshell — cmd.exe sc query (★★★)</summary>

<p align="center">
  <img width="700" alt="edr_services_cmd sc query output" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5ded11af-71c8-4606-bb89-b3c0437ce0f8" />
</p>

Spawns `cmd.exe`. Logged in Sysmon EID 1 / Windows EID 4688 with command line. No CLR, no AMSI, no PS telemetry.
</details>

## Noise Rating Explained

The script rates commands by **NOISE** instead of "OPSEC" — because star ratings are instinctively read as "more = better." With NOISE, the meaning is immediately clear: **★ = quiet (good), ★★★★ = loud (bad)**.

| Level | Label | What Lights Up |
|-------|-------|----------------|
| ★ | MINIMAL | Nothing. Beacon-native, in-process only. |
| ★★ | LOW | CLR loaded into Beacon. `.NET Runtime` ETW. AMSI init. |
| ★★★ | MODERATE | Child process (`cmd.exe`). Sysmon EID 1, Windows EID 4688. |
| ★★★★ | HIGH | `powershell.exe`. ScriptBlock, Module Log, AMSI, full ETW. |

> **Key insight:** ★★ and ★★★ open *different* detection surfaces, not additive ones. `cmd.exe` does not load CLR; `bpowerpick` does not spawn a child process. The star count reflects overall detection likelihood.

## Malleable C2 Dependency

Commands that spawn child processes (`bshell`, `bpowershell`, `bpowerpick`) inherit your Malleable C2 profile's `.post-ex.spawnto` settings. The parent-child lineage (e.g. `rundll32.exe` → `powershell.exe`) is an additional detection surface on top of the command itself — and one that most EDRs flag by default. This is why `edr_check` + `edr_services_bof` is the recommended approach: no child process, no lineage to analyze.

## BOF Technical Details

The BOF (`svc_enum_bof.c`) performs two-phase enumeration via the Service Control Manager API:

1. **Phase 1 — Win32 Services** (`SERVICE_WIN32`): User-mode services, output as `SERVICE_NAME:` lines
2. **Phase 2 — Kernel Drivers** (`SERVICE_DRIVER`): Kernel, file system, and recognizer drivers, output as `DRIVER_NAME:` lines

Both phases share a single `SCManager` handle and output in one contiguous blob. The mode argument (packed short: 0=both, 1=svc, 2=drv) controls which phases execute.

Technical specifics:
- Opens `SCManager` with `SC_MANAGER_ENUMERATE_SERVICE`
- Calls `EnumServicesStatusExW` with two-call pattern (size query → allocate → enumerate)
- Converts wide service names to narrow (UTF-8) for signature matching
- All API calls use Dynamic Function Resolution (DFR) — no static imports, no IAT entries
- Single 512 KB format buffer accommodates systems with 300+ services and 200+ drivers

## Threat Levels

| Level | Meaning | Implications |
|-------|---------|--------------|
| **HIGH** | Active EDR detected | Kernel callbacks, user-mode hooks, ETW TI, cloud analytics, tamper protection |
| **MODERATE** | AV + Telemetry | File scanning + event forwarding to SOC |
| **LOW-MOD** | AV only | File scanning, heuristics, AMSI |
| **LOW** | Non-EDR/AV only | EPP, vulnerability scanner, minimal real-time |
| **UNKNOWN** | Nothing detected | May be kernel-only, agentless, cloud-native, or NDR |

## Contributing

PRs welcome for new vendor signatures. The format is straightforward:

**Process signatures** (in `init_process_sigs`):
```sleep
%edr_process_signatures["processname.exe"] = "Vendor | Product Name | Category";
```

**Service signatures** (in `init_service_sigs`):
```sleep
%edr_service_signatures["servicename"] = "Vendor | Product Name | Category";
```

**Driver signatures** (in `init_driver_sigs`):
```sleep
%edr_driver_signatures["drivername"] = "Vendor | Product Name | Category";
```

Categories: `EDR`, `AV`, `EPP`, `Telemetry`, `SIEM-EDR`, `DFIR`, `ZTNA`, `Vuln Scanner`

> **Note:** All signature keys must be lowercase. Matching uses substring comparison (`isin`) against extracted names, so short keys (< 5 chars) risk false positives against unrelated Windows services. When in doubt, prefer longer, more specific keys.

## License

MIT

## Disclaimer

This tool is intended for authorized red team engagements and security testing only. Ensure you have proper authorization before use. The author assumes no liability for misuse.

Commit message:

Update README with improved kernel driver enumeration details
Enhanced kernel driver enumeration description to include callback drivers.

README.md, after:

# CS-EDR-Enumeration

Cobalt Strike Aggressor Script for enumerating AV, EPP, EDR, and Telemetry/SIEM products on compromised Windows hosts. Provides **six enumeration commands** with different noise footprints, letting operators choose the method that fits their current risk tolerance.

![Cobalt Strike](https://img.shields.io/badge/Cobalt%20Strike-4.x-red)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green)
![Signatures](https://img.shields.io/badge/Signatures-447-blue)
![Vendors](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vendors-48-orange)

## Why This Exists

Knowing what security products are running on a host is the first question after initial access. The problem: most enumeration techniques spawn `powershell.exe` or `cmd.exe`, generating telemetry that the very EDR you're trying to identify will flag. The irony of spawning the most-monitored process on the system to ask whether the system is monitored shouldn't be lost on anyone.

This script provides a graduated approach — from completely silent (in-process BOF, zero artifacts) to full WMI enumeration — so operators can make informed decisions about detection tradeoffs.

## Features

- Broad signature database covering **processes**, **services**, and **kernel drivers** across all major EDR, AV, EPP, and telemetry vendors
- **Kernel driver enumeration** — detects EDR minifilters and callback drivers that persist even after user-mode services are killed or tampered with 
- **Six commands** sorted by noise level from `★` (silent) to `★★★★` (loud)
- **BOF with mode selection** — enumerate services only, drivers only, or both
- Inline BOF execution — zero child processes, no AMSI/CLR/ETW
- Automatic threat level assessment (HIGH / MODERATE / LOW)
- Color-coded output by product category: `[EDR]` `[AV]` `[EPP]` `[TEL]` `[DRV]`
- Built-in `edr_help` with split artifact/coverage matrices

## Supported Vendors

| Category | Vendors |
|----------|---------|
| **EDR** | CrowdStrike, SentinelOne, Carbon Black, Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, Cortex XDR, Elastic Security, Sophos Intercept X, Trend Micro Apex One, Trellix/FireEye, ESET Inspect, Bitdefender GravityZone, Cybereason, Fortinet FortiEDR, HarfangLab, Huntress, Deep Instinct, LimaCharlie, Rapid7, Tanium, Dell Secureworks, Endgame |
| **AV** | Microsoft Defender, ESET, Kaspersky, Sophos, McAfee/Trellix, Trend Micro, Bitdefender, Webroot, Malwarebytes, WithSecure/F-Secure, Avast/AVG, Avira, Norton/Gen Digital, Comodo/Xcitium, G Data, Emsisoft, Dr.Web, AhnLab, VIPRE/ThreatTrack |
| **EPP** | Broadcom/Symantec, BlackBerry Cylance, WatchGuard/Panda, Check Point Harmony |
| **Telemetry/SIEM** | Sysmon, Splunk UF, Elastic Beats, Wazuh/OSSEC, Velociraptor, Nexthink |
| **ZTNA/Other** | Zscaler, CyberArk, Cisco Secure Endpoint, Qualys |

## Command Reference

Commands sorted by noise level (lowest → highest):

| Command | Noise | Method | Child Process | CLR | AMSI | ScriptBlock Log |
|---------|-------|--------|---------------|-----|------|-----------------|
| `edr_check` | ★ | `bps()` process list | — | — | — | — |
| `edr_services_bof` | ★ | Inline BOF (`beacon_inline_execute`) | — | — | — | — |
| `edr_services_pick` | ★★ | `bpowerpick` (unmanaged PowerShell) | — | Yes | Yes | — |
| `edr_services_cmd` | ★★★ | `bshell` + `sc query` | cmd.exe | — | — | — |
| `edr_services` | ★★★★ | `bpowershell` + `Get-Service` | powershell.exe | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| `edr_enum` | ★★★★ | `bps()` + PowerShell WMI | powershell.exe | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| `edr_help` | — | Client-side only (no Beacon traffic) | — | — | — | — |

> **—** = not generated &nbsp;│&nbsp; **Yes** = generated &nbsp;│&nbsp; Noise: ★ minimal → ★★★★ loud

### BOF Modes

`edr_services_bof` accepts an optional argument to control enumeration scope:

| Command | Scope | Use Case |
|---------|-------|----------|
| `edr_services_bof` | Services + drivers | Full picture (default) |
| `edr_services_bof svc` | Services only | Quick vendor ID, less output over slow C2 |
| `edr_services_bof drv` | Drivers only | Verify kernel callbacks after service kill |

One compiled BOF, one `inline-execute` call. The operator picks scope at runtime.

### Recommended Workflow

```
1. edr_check                ★     Always. Zero cost.
2. edr_services_bof         ★     If BOF is compiled. Zero cost.
   edr_services_bof svc     ★     Quick vendor ID only.
   edr_services_bof drv     ★     Drivers only (post-svc-kill check).
3. edr_services_pick        ★★    If CLR loading is acceptable.
4. edr_services_cmd         ★★★   If cmd.exe child is acceptable.
5. edr_services             ★★★★  Only if PowerShell is already expected.
6. edr_enum                 ★★★★  Full picture, highest artifact cost.
```

**Best combo:** `edr_check` + `edr_services_bof` = full process, service, AND kernel driver visibility at noise level ★ with zero extra artifacts.

**Post-exploit:** After killing an EDR service, run `edr_services_bof drv` to verify whether kernel callbacks and minifilters are still loaded.

### Artifact Matrix (Detection Surface)

What each command leaves behind — fewer marks is better:

```
                    check  bof   bof   bof   pick  cmd   svc   enum
                           both  svc   drv
Child Process:      -      -     -     -     -     cmd   PS    PS
CLR Loading:        -      -     -     -     YES   -     YES   YES
AMSI:               -      -     -     -     YES   -     YES   YES
ScriptBlock:        -      -     -     -     -     -     YES   YES
Module Log:         -      -     -     -     -     -     YES   YES
Transcript:         -      -     -     -     -     -     poss  poss
WMI Log:            -      -     -     -     -     -     -     YES
Sysmon EID 1:       -      -     -     -     -     YES   YES   YES
Sysmon EID 7:       -      -     -     -     YES   -     -     -
.NET ETW:           -      -     -     -     YES   -     -     -
EID 4688:           -      -     -     -     -     YES   YES   YES
```

> **-** = no artifact &nbsp;│&nbsp; **YES** = generated &nbsp;│&nbsp; **cmd/PS** = child process type &nbsp;│&nbsp; **poss** = only if transcript logging is enabled on the target. Fewer marks = lower detection risk.

### Coverage Matrix (What You Get Back)

What intel each command returns:

```
                    check  bof   bof   bof   pick  cmd   svc   enum
                           both  svc   drv
Processes:          YES    -     -     -     -     -     -     YES
Services:           -      YES   YES   -     YES   YES   YES   YES
Kernel Drivers:     -      YES   -     YES   -     -     -     -
WMI AV Products:    -      -     -     -     -     -     -     YES
```

> **YES** = enumerated &nbsp;│&nbsp; **-** = not covered. More **YES** = better intel.

### Operator Reference (`edr_help`)

Run `edr_help` in any Beacon to display a built-in quick reference card. Client-side only — no traffic to the target. Covers noise baseline definitions, all commands with their artifacts, recommended workflow, artifact and coverage matrices, color coding legend, threat levels, Malleable C2 notes, and current signature database stats.

<p align="center">
  <img width="700" alt="edr_help operator quick reference output" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/05eb0988-7ce3-428b-a52e-6209bd1078ff" />
</p>

## Installation

### 1. Load the Aggressor Script

Copy `edr-enum.cna` into your Cobalt Strike client:

```
Cobalt Strike → Script Manager → Load → edr-enum.cna
```

This gives you immediate access to `edr_check`, `edr_services`, `edr_services_cmd`, `edr_services_pick`, and `edr_enum`. No compilation required for these.

### 2. Compile the BOF (for `edr_services_bof`)

The BOF requires MinGW-w64 cross-compilers. On Kali/Debian/Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt install mingw-w64
```

Then compile using the provided Makefile:

```bash
make
```

Or manually:

```bash
# x64
x86_64-w64-mingw32-gcc -c svc_enum_bof.c -o svc_enum_bof.x64.o

# x86
i686-w64-mingw32-gcc -c svc_enum_bof.c -o svc_enum_bof.x86.o
```

Place the compiled `.o` files in the **same directory** as `edr-enum.cna`.

> **Note:** The `.o` filenames must use dot convention (`svc_enum_bof.x64.o`, not `svc_enum_bof_x64.o`) to match the CNA's `script_resource()` lookup.

## File Structure

```
CS-EDR-Enumeration/
├── edr-enum.cna          # Aggressor Script (main script)
├── svc_enum_bof.c        # BOF source for service + driver enumeration
├── beacon.h              # Cobalt Strike BOF API header
├── Makefile              # Cross-compilation build script
└── README.md
```

## Output Examples

### Process-Based Enumeration (`edr_check`)

Uses Beacon's native `bps()` — no child process, no DLL loads, no ETW. Zero artifacts.

<p align="center">
  <img width="700" alt="edr_check process enumeration output" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/aa2f00ae-74aa-4db0-ae3a-f4762ab36e13" />
</p>

### BOF Service + Driver Enumeration (`edr_services_bof`)

In-process enumeration via `OpenSCManagerW` + `EnumServicesStatusExW`. Enumerates both Win32 services and kernel drivers. Same noise level as `edr_check`.

<p align="center">
  <img width="700" alt="edr_services_bof service and driver enumeration output" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/01d57e9d-03f7-4983-ad6c-22be28a986b5" />
</p>

### Other Methods

<details>
<summary>bpowerpick — Unmanaged PowerShell (★★)</summary>

<p align="center">
  <img width="700" alt="edr_services_pick unmanaged PowerShell output" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7ebd8eec-c7b3-4da8-b9ca-8694e272d2f5" />
</p>

Loads CLR into Beacon process. No `powershell.exe` child, but EDRs may flag unmanaged CLR hosting.
</details>

<details>
<summary>bpowershell — PowerShell Get-Service (★★★★)</summary>

<p align="center">
  <img width="700" alt="edr_services PowerShell Get-Service output" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d8075abc-67b3-4e2c-b28e-f28d0bbc699f" />
</p>

Spawns `powershell.exe` — activates ScriptBlock logging, Module logging, AMSI, and process creation events.
</details>

<details>
<summary>bshell — cmd.exe sc query (★★★)</summary>

<p align="center">
  <img width="700" alt="edr_services_cmd sc query output" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5ded11af-71c8-4606-bb89-b3c0437ce0f8" />
</p>

Spawns `cmd.exe`. Logged in Sysmon EID 1 / Windows EID 4688 with command line. No CLR, no AMSI, no PS telemetry.
</details>

## Noise Rating Explained

The script rates commands by **NOISE** instead of "OPSEC" — because star ratings are instinctively read as "more = better." With NOISE, the meaning is immediately clear: **★ = quiet (good), ★★★★ = loud (bad)**.

| Level | Label | What Lights Up |
|-------|-------|----------------|
| ★ | MINIMAL | Nothing. Beacon-native, in-process only. |
| ★★ | LOW | CLR loaded into Beacon. `.NET Runtime` ETW. AMSI init. |
| ★★★ | MODERATE | Child process (`cmd.exe`). Sysmon EID 1, Windows EID 4688. |
| ★★★★ | HIGH | `powershell.exe`. ScriptBlock, Module Log, AMSI, full ETW. |

> **Key insight:** ★★ and ★★★ open *different* detection surfaces, not additive ones. `cmd.exe` does not load CLR; `bpowerpick` does not spawn a child process. The star count reflects overall detection likelihood.

## Malleable C2 Dependency

Commands that spawn child processes (`bshell`, `bpowershell`, `bpowerpick`) inherit your Malleable C2 profile's `.post-ex.spawnto` settings. The parent-child lineage (e.g. `rundll32.exe` → `powershell.exe`) is an additional detection surface on top of the command itself — and one that most EDRs flag by default. This is why `edr_check` + `edr_services_bof` is the recommended approach: no child process, no lineage to analyze.

## BOF Technical Details

The BOF (`svc_enum_bof.c`) performs two-phase enumeration via the Service Control Manager API:

1. **Phase 1 — Win32 Services** (`SERVICE_WIN32`): User-mode services, output as `SERVICE_NAME:` lines
2. **Phase 2 — Kernel Drivers** (`SERVICE_DRIVER`): Kernel, file system, and recognizer drivers, output as `DRIVER_NAME:` lines

Both phases share a single `SCManager` handle and output in one contiguous blob. The mode argument (packed short: 0=both, 1=svc, 2=drv) controls which phases execute.

Technical specifics:
- Opens `SCManager` with `SC_MANAGER_ENUMERATE_SERVICE`
- Calls `EnumServicesStatusExW` with two-call pattern (size query → allocate → enumerate)
- Converts wide service names to narrow (UTF-8) for signature matching
- All API calls use Dynamic Function Resolution (DFR) — no static imports, no IAT entries
- Single 512 KB format buffer accommodates systems with 300+ services and 200+ drivers

## Threat Levels

| Level | Meaning | Implications |
|-------|---------|--------------|
| **HIGH** | Active EDR detected | Kernel callbacks, user-mode hooks, ETW TI, cloud analytics, tamper protection |
| **MODERATE** | AV + Telemetry | File scanning + event forwarding to SOC |
| **LOW-MOD** | AV only | File scanning, heuristics, AMSI |
| **LOW** | Non-EDR/AV only | EPP, vulnerability scanner, minimal real-time |
| **UNKNOWN** | Nothing detected | May be kernel-only, agentless, cloud-native, or NDR |

## Contributing

PRs welcome for new vendor signatures. The format is straightforward:

**Process signatures** (in `init_process_sigs`):
```sleep
%edr_process_signatures["processname.exe"] = "Vendor | Product Name | Category";
```

**Service signatures** (in `init_service_sigs`):
```sleep
%edr_service_signatures["servicename"] = "Vendor | Product Name | Category";
```

**Driver signatures** (in `init_driver_sigs`):
```sleep
%edr_driver_signatures["drivername"] = "Vendor | Product Name | Category";
```

Categories: `EDR`, `AV`, `EPP`, `Telemetry`, `SIEM-EDR`, `DFIR`, `ZTNA`, `Vuln Scanner`

> **Note:** All signature keys must be lowercase. Matching uses substring comparison (`isin`) against extracted names, so short keys (< 5 chars) risk false positives against unrelated Windows services. When in doubt, prefer longer, more specific keys.

## License

MIT

## Disclaimer

This tool is intended for authorized red team engagements and security testing only. Ensure you have proper authorization before use. The author assumes no liability for misuse.
